Helm: unify NGINX and gateway values sections (#3181)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/operators-guide/deploy-grafana-mimir/migrate-to-unified-proxy-deployment/_index.md

      gateway:
        enabledNonEnterprise: true
        replicas: 10
      ```

   2. Deploy your changes.

      ```bash
      helm upgrade $RELEASE grafana/mimir-distributed -f custom.yaml
      ```

2. Replace the `nginx` deployment with `gateway`.

   1. Disable NGINX. Add or merge the following with your values file:

      ```yaml
      nginx:
        enabled: false
      ```

   2. If you are using the Ingress that the chart provides, then copy the `ingress` section from `nginx` to
      `gateway` and override the name. Override the name to the name of the Ingress resource that
      the chart created for NGINX or the GEM gateway.

      Reusing the name allows the `helm` command to retain the existing resource instead of deleting it and
      recreating it under a slightly different name.

      In the example that follows, the name of the Ingress
      resource was `mimir-nginx`. Use `kubectl` to get the name of the existing Ingress resource:

      ```bash
      kubectl get ingress
      ```

      ```console
      NAME          CLASS    HOSTS               ADDRESS    PORTS     AGE
      mimir-nginx   <none>   mimir.example.com   10.0.0.1   80, 443   172d
      ```

>       After carrying out this step the Helm values for `gateway` should look like the following:

Author: yeah that was my idea too. i thought "should look like" wasn't prescriptive 😄 @osg-grafana what's a better way to say that a part of a file "should bear close resemblance with the example that follows"

there is a reason we cannot be super specific - there are countless combinations of values that users could have set. We explain that they should copy their combination of values, but in our example we cannot cover all cases.

>       After carrying out this step the Helm values for `gateway` should look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The Helm chart values for `gateway` should look similar to this:
```

      ```yaml
      gateway:
        ingress:
          enabled: true
          nameOverride: mimir-nginx
          hosts:
            - host: mimir.example.com
              paths:
                - path: /
                  pathType: Prefix
          tls:
            - secretName: mimir-gateway-tls
              hosts:
                - mimir.example.com
        enabledNonEnterprise: true
        replicas: 10
      ```

>    3. Copy the `service` section from `nginx` to `gateway` and override the name. Override the name to

Reviewer 2: I think I get it. I need to add nameOverride if I'm using the service directly. In my case I use the service as my grafana datasource, but I use the ingress as the url in my browser, so I needed to update both to avoid downtime.

>    3. Copy the `service` section from `nginx` to `gateway` and override the name. Override the name to

Author: that's right. I also added a sentence to make it clear why we are doing this

---
description: "Migrate to the unified gateway deployment for NGINX and GEM gateway in Helm"
title: "Migrate to the unified gateway deployment for NGINX and GEM gateway in Helm"
menuTitle: "Unified gateway deployment for NGINX and GEM gateway in Helm"
weight: 110
aliases:
  - /docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/deploying-grafana-mimir/migrate-to-unified-gateway-deployment/
---

# Migrate to the unified gateway deployment for NGINX and GEM gateway in Helm

> Version 4.0.0 of the `mimir-distributed` Helm chart adds a new way to deploy the NGINX reverse proxy in front of

Author: ```suggestion
Version `4.0.0` of the `mimir-distributed` Helm chart adds a new way to deploy the NGINX reverse proxy in front of
```

Mimir. The NGINX configuration was unified with the GEM (Grafana Enterprise Metrics) gateway configuration. Using a
single section makes it possible to migrate from Mimir to GEM without downtime.

The unification also brings new features to the GEM gateway: OpenShift Route and horizontal autoscaling of the
gateway Pods.

The unified configuration lives in the `gateway` section of the values file. With this we also

> deprecate the `nginx` section. It will be removed in `mimir-distributed` version 7.0.0.

Author: ```suggestion
deprecate the `nginx` section. It will be removed in `mimir-distributed` version `7.0.0`.
```

It is possible to migrate from `nginx` to the `gateway` configuration without downtime too. The migration should take
less than 30 minutes. The rest of this article contains a procedure for migrating from the old `nignx` section to
`gateway`.

## Before you begin

> Make sure that the version of the `mimir-distributed` Helm chart that you have installed is 4.0.0 or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that the version of the `mimir-distributed` Helm chart that you have installed is `4.0.0` or higher.
```

## Procedure

> 1. Scale out the `gateway` deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Scale out the `gateway` deployment:
```

   1. Change your Helm values file to enable the `gateway` and increase its replicas. Set the number of replicas of
      the gateway Deployment to the number of
      replicas that NGINX are running with. For example, if you have deployed 10 NGINX replicas, then

>       add the following to your Helm values file `custom.yaml`:

Author: > Helm values file or Helm chart value file?

it's the same thing

      ```yaml
      gateway:
        enabledNonEnterprise: true
        replicas: 10
      ```

>    2. Deploy your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Deploy your changes:
```

      ```bash
      helm upgrade $RELEASE grafana/mimir-distributed -f custom.yaml
      ```

> 2. Replace the `nginx` deployment with `gateway`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Replace the `nginx` deployment with `gateway`:
```

> 2. Replace the `nginx` deployment with `gateway`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Replace the `nginx` deployment with `gateway`:
```

>    1. Disable NGINX. Add or merge the following with your values file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Disable NGINX by adding or merging the following configuration with your values file:
```

      ```yaml
      nginx:
        enabled: false
      ```

>    2. If you are using the Ingress that the chart provides, then copy the `ingress` section from `nginx` to
>       `gateway` and override the name. Override the name to the name of the Ingress resource that
>       the chart created for NGINX or the GEM gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. If you are using the Ingress that the Helm chart provides, then copy the `ingress` section from `nginx` to
      `gateway`, and override the name to the name of the Ingress resource that
      the Helm chart created for NGINX or the GEM gateway.
```

      In the example that follows, the name of the Service
      resource was `mimir-nginx`. Use `kubectl` to get the name of the existing Service resource:

      ```bash
      kubecl get service
      ```

      ```console
      NAME          TYPE        CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)             AGE
      mimir-nginx   ClusterIP   10.188.8.32   <none>        8080/TCP,9095/TCP   172d
      ```

      After carrying out this step the Helm values for `gateway` should look like the following:

      ```yaml
      gateway:
        service:
          annotations:
            networking.istio.io/exportTo: admin
          nameOverride: mimir-nginx
        ingress:
          enabled: true
          nameOverride: mimir-nginx
          hosts:
            - host: mimir.example.com
              paths:
                - path: /
                  pathType: Prefix
          tls:
            - secretName: mimir-gateway-tls
              hosts:
                - mimir.example.com
        enabledNonEnterprise: true
        replicas: 10
      ```

   4. Update the readiness probe endpoint if you are overriding `nginx.nginxConfig`.

>       The readiness probe in the `gateway` setup uses the `/ready` endpoint on the containers. Version 4.0.0 of

Author: ```suggestion
      The readiness probe in the `gateway` setup uses the `/ready` endpoint on the containers. Version `4.0.0` of
```

      `mimir-distributed` configures the NGINX to serve this endpoint. In versions prior to that that endpoint
      does not exist. If you have copied the contents of `nginx.nginxConfig` into your values file prior

>       to version 4.0.0, then you need to correct the readiness probe.

Author: ```suggestion
      to version `4.0.0`, then you need to correct the readiness probe.
```
